.TH CRYPTCTL 1 2022-09-27 THEA Thea's\ Personal\ Manual

.SH NAME
cryptctl \- an interface to open and mount or unmount and close
encrypted drives

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cryptctl
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR]... [\fI\,FILE\/\fR]...
.br
.B cryptctl \-o [\fI\,NAME\/\fR]... [\fI\,FILE\/\fR]...
.br
.B cryptctl \-c [\fI\,NAME\/\fR]...

.SH
DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B cryptctl
is an abstraction around
.B cryptsetup(1)
to easily open and mount according to
.B fstab(5)
rules encrypted LUKS volumes. Similarly it provides the same functionality for
unmounting and closing said volumes.
.PP
This is alpha quality software and alpha quality manual page.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR open the LUKS container and mount as specified in fstab
.TP
\fB\-m\fR mount in different place than fstab; must be combined with. To be implemented
.TP
\fB\-c\fR unmount and close the container; just unmounting not supported
.TP
\fB\-h\fR display this menu
.TP
\fB\-v\fR verbose flag; to be implemented, now it is on

.SH EXAMPLES
\". no idea how the formatting below works, taken from man manual page
\". but it turns it is not useful for my use case I leave it here for
\".reference
.TP \w'cryptctl\ 'u
\fBcryptctl \-o \fIname \fIkey_file \fR
Open the LUKS container under
.I name
and use
.I key_file
to unlock it.
.TP
\fBcryptctl \-c \fIname \fR
Close
.IR name .

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
if everything succeeded,
.TP
1
if some operation failed.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Thea.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co Thea.
Licence GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcryptsetup(1)\fP
