.TH FILEBAK 1 2022-09-04 THEA Thea's\ Personal\ Manual

.SH NAME
filebak \- create a snapshot of the most recent changes to files

.SH SYNOPSIS
I have nothing to synops yet

.SH
DESCRIPTION
.\" I have no clue how the bolding below works, I saw it in some
.\" other manpage
Copy using \fBrsync (1)\fR from predefined directories to encrypted
removable storage.

As of now it assumes just basic luks2 encryption. For the simplicity
of implementation any device to be used with \fBfilebak\fR should have
its own entry in the \fBfstab (5)\fR and the drive should have labels.

.SH USAGE
When invoked without any arguments the script assumes default destination
for the backup as samsung240gb USB drive. Exactly Four arguments can be 
provided in the order specified below.
.TP
device_label
this is the label of the encrypted drive that is to be opened. In current
version the label of the encrypted drive and the filesystem that is in there.
So when /dev/disk/by-label/device_label is used for the first time it points
to the encrypted container but after opening it the symlink points to the
filesystem in there. We can see this by running lsblk -o NAME,LABEL,MOUNTPOINT.

.TP
device_name
the name for the \fBcryptsetup (1)\fR to open encrypted device under. It could
be the same as the mountpoint specified in the \fBfstab (5)\fR file as it
is used later as the destination of the backup.
.TP
backup_destination
where to store the copy of the local files. As of now it has unchangeable prefix
of /media/$USER/ but anything after can be set by passing the third argument of
the script.
.TP
key_location
where the keyfile that opens the encrypted drive is located. Currently it has
unchangeable prefix of $HOME/Documents/pass. Otherwise a passphrase should be
used.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
if everything succeeded,
.TP
1
if some operation failed.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Thea.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co Thea.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBrsync(1)\fP
