.TH OPEN 1 2022-12-24 THEA Thea's\ Personal\ Manual

.SH NAME
open \- open a given file with a specified based on the extension.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B open
opens a file given it as a first (and only) argument with one of the hardcoded
programs based on its extension.

.PP
Future releases will try to guess the filetype based on the file contents or
metadata or other available information if the file name does not contain a
proper extension (or it has no extension at all). Appropriate behaviours in case
of errors will also be added as well as support for more extensions and file
types.

.PP
This is alpha quality software and alpha quality manual page. Features might get
added or deleted or the entires script might be replaced by something else.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
\fBopen\fP file.pdf
Open file.pdf in \fBzathura(1)\fP.

.TP
\fBopen\fP file.md
Open file.md by connecting to \fBemacsclient(1)\fP or if it is not running spawn
\fBalacritty(1)\fP or \fPxterm(1)\fP if launching the former failed with file
opened in \fBneovim(1)\fP.

.TP
\fBopen\fP file.mp4
Open file.mp4 in \fBmpv(1)\fP.

.TP
\fBopen\fP file.mp3
Just like above.

.TP
\fBopen\fP file
When the supplied file name has no extension, program exits.
Script behaves identically if the extension is not supported or if its
extraction by shell parameter expansion failed (i.e. too many dots at the end of
file like ...file).

.SH EXIT STATUS
Currently determined only by exit codes of external programs.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Thea.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co Thea.
Licence GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBffile(1)\fP
